We all have photographic memories, it's just
that some of us don't have any film.
Hey Guys Julia here for DNews.
One of my favorite book series as a kid was
about kid detective Cam Jansen, who by saying
“click” could snap a picture in her head
and be able to remember the scene like she
was looking at a photograph.
Just like Cam Jansen, though, photographic
memory seems to be a work of fiction. There’s
a limit to the kind of information we can
take it at once. We remember certain details
of a scene, but not EVERY detail. Like if
I try to think of the painting of the Girl
with the Pearl Earring, I can kind of remember
what her earring looks like, but I couldn’t
for the life of me tell you what color her
eyes are.
Little kids often have something close, though,
called eidetic memory. This is when kids can
recall an image in extreme detail for a few
minutes after they’ve seen it. But because
most people lose this ability as they grow
up some scientists think it’s an immature
version of memory. As kids grow up and learn
to read and write and think abstractly, memory
becomes more abstract too.
Yeah there are some examples of people with
REALLY good memory. Stephen Wiltshire comes
about as close as possible to being a human
camera. After just a short helicopter ride,
he was able to recreate the skyline of New
York to almost near accuracy. Of course, he
is an artist, so he took some creative liberties.
But no serious scientific research confirms
his abilities.
While that’s just one maybe example, there
are other cases of people will really good
memories. Like really good. One famous case,
the story of Jill Price who remembers nearly
everyday of her life was published in the
journal Neurocase. She remembers everything
about her life, down to what shirt she wore
to Target to buy groceries on a certain day.
Although her abilities might be the result
of a kind of OCD where she obsesses over memories.
Which doesn’t sound all that fun.
Another study published in the journal of
Neurobiology of Learning and Memory looked
at the brains of eleven participants who might
have similar memories. Scientists referred
to this ability as Highly Superior Autobiographical
Memory (HSAM). While they performed pretty
average on some cognitive tests, the researchers
found that their brains were actually unique.
They had stronger white matter connections,
which could allow information to be transferred
more efficiently in the brain.
But the participants didn’t use memory palaces
or other tricks. The scientists found that
“Instead, they appear to have some inherent
ability to retain and retrieve vast amounts
of public and autobiographical events, well
beyond what one may expect from simple rehearsal.”
What kind of rehearsal you ask? Well, mind
palaces seem to be the best way to boost your
memory. If you’ve ever seen BBC’s Sherlock
Holmes, you know what this looks like. Pick
a scene you’re familiar with like walking
down your street or walking around your house
and put things you want to remember in a certain
spot. Like if I wanted to remember pi i could
put the 3 on my front door, I could put the
.14 on the wall in my foyer. I could put the
15 on my banister I could put the 92 at the
top of stairs. you get the idea, as I mentally
walk through my house, I would associate those
numbers with those locations. A lot of memory
champions use this trick.
While photographic memory doesn’t seem real
and most of us don’t have special memories,
thank God because I would really hate to re-live
every embarrassing day of middle school, there
are ways to improve your memory. Like the
mind-palace trick or Trace says to sniff some
rosemary or maybe make a fist! No really,
check it out in this video here or check out
why we forget things at all, check out this
video here.
Alright guys, what tricks do you use to remember
things? Let us know in the comments below…